Changelog 187 (#173)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2023-01-30-changelog-187.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #187"
date: 2023-01-30 13:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* [#10002], [#10032] Add initial support for 2023.1 [EAP](https://www.jetbrains.com/resources/eap/) builds.
  The Early Access Program gives you free access to pre-release versions of JetBrains software
  and doesn't require a paid IDE subscription

* [#9991] Drop support for 2022.2 platform

* [#9977] Provide separate icons for constants and statics

>   <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-187/new_const_icon_2.png" width="1044px"/>

Reviewer: Are you usre about width? It looks loo large

* [#9974] Provide `Inject language or reference` intention action inside macro invocation bodies

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-187/inject_macro" w="600px" %}

## Performance Improvements

* [#9978] Speed up `Insert imports on paste` action. Note, the corresponding feature is disabled by default.
  You can turn it on via `Rust | Insert imports on paste` option in `Preferences | Editor | General | Auto Import` panel

> * [#9960] Check if any plugin action is available in the current context in background thread to prevent possible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#9960] Check if any plugin action is available in the current context in the background thread to prevent possible
```

  UI freezes in some cases

## Fixes

* [#9945] Filter out methods of inaccessible traits from completion list.

* [#9589] Fix jumping outside closing bracket/quote with `Tab` when typing

* [#9786] Fix rendering of huge strings when debugging with LLDB

* [#9901] Fix broken compilation of some crates (for example, `thiserror`) after build script evaluation by the plugin

> * [#10021] Fix handling `Fn*` trait with path lifetimes in `Needless lifetimes` inspection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#10021] Fix handling of `Fn*` trait with path lifetimes in `Needless lifetimes` inspection
```

> * [#10014] Fix a UI freeze caused by the navigation bar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#10014] Fix the UI freeze caused by the navigation bar
```

> * [#9990] Fix resolve of custom macros with the same name as in prelude

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#9990] Properly resolve custom macros with the same names as built-in macros from the prelude
```

* [#9988] Trim template name and URL when creating a new project using a [custom cargo-generate template]

> * [#9971], [#9982] Fixes incorrect macro expansions when block expression is involved (by [@foriequal0])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#9971], [#9982] Fix incorrect macro expansions when block expression is involved (by [@foriequal0])
```

* [#9930] Show a proper error message for usage of undeclared lifetimes

* [#9914] Properly process top-level items by `Main function not found` inspection. Now it takes into account
  `cfg` attributes and items expanded from macros.
  Note, you need to enable attribute macro expansion via `org.rust.macros.proc.attr` [experimental feature]
  to fix false positive `Main function not found` with [rocket](https://rocket.rs/) library

* [#9850] Suggest `Elide lifetimes` fix in case `self` parameter has reference type like `Box<&Self>`

* [#9842] Suggest `Elide lifetimes` fix in cases when a function has `fn` pointer parameters

* [#9472] Fix default generic arg subst if it refers to another generic param, for example `struct Bar<A = Foo, B = A>`

## Internal Improvements

* [#9974] Plugin developers now can implement `MultiHostInjector`s to make language injections into some macro invocation bodies

> * [#9678] Slightly speed up gradle task execution on CI because of better caching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#9678] Slightly speed up Gradle task execution on CI thanks to better caching
```

* [#9991] Drop support for 2022.2 platform

* [#9977] Provide separate icons for constants and statics

  TODO screenshot

* [#9974] Provide `Inject language or reference` intention action inside macro invocation bodies

  TODO gif

* [#9927] Add support for showing reference usages Code Vision. Note, these hints are currently disabled by default.
  You can turn it on via `Registry... | org.rust.code.vision.usage` (by [@Kobzol])

  TODO screenshot

## Performance Improvements

* [#9978] Speed up `Insert imports on paste` action

* [#9960] Check if any plugin action is available in the current context in background thread to prevent possible
  UI freezes in some cases

## Fixes

* [#9589] Fix jumping outside closing bracket/quote with `Tab` when typing

  TODO promote the feature with a gif?

* [#9945] Filter out methods of inaccessible traits from completion list.

* [#9786] Fix rendering of huge strings when debugging with LLDB

* [#9901] Fix broken compilation of some crates (for example, `thiserror`) after build script evaluation by the plugin

* [#10021] Fix handling `Fn*` trait with path lifetimes in `Needless lifetimes` inspection

> * [#10014] Fix a UI freeze caused by navbar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#10014] Fix a UI freeze caused by navigation bar
```

* [#9990] Fix resolve of custom macros with the same name as in prelude

* [#9988] Trim template name and URL when creating a new project using a [custom cargo-generate template]

* [#9971], [#9982] Fixes incorrect macro expansions when block expression is involved (by [@foriequal0])

* [#9930] Show a proper error message for usage of undeclared lifetimes

* [#9914] Properly process top-level items by `Main function not found` inspection. Now it takes into account
  `cfg` attributes and items expanded from macros.
  Note, you need to enable attribute macro expansion via `org.rust.macros.proc.attr` [experimental feature]
  to fix false positive `Main function not found` with [rocket](https://rocket.rs/) library

* [#9850] Suggest `Elide lifetimes` fix in case `self` parameter has reference type like `Box<&Self>`

> * [#9842] Suggest `Elide lifetimes` fix in cases when a function has `fn` pointer parameters

Reviewer 3: It's the end of the fixes list (and the fixes are quite different), so I don't think we should merge them
